The theme for our program is, the women proclaiming the good news.
Sadly, throughout human history, women have been subjected to injustice, violence, and abuse.
Why is that? The Bible explains.
In the latter part of Genesis 3 and verse 16, notice what God says.
Your longing will be for your husband and he will dominate you.
When God said that Adam would dominate his wife, God was not indicating his approval of the subjugation of woman by man.
He was simply for telling the sad consequences of sin on the first couple.
So, abuse of women is a direct outcome of a sinful nature of humans, not of God's will.
Right down to our day, rarely have women been accorded the dignity that God wants them to receive.
However, Jehovah makes clear in his word the Bible that women and men have equal standing before him.
In fact, he indicated that women would play a vital role in the outworking of his purpose.
Our theme is based on Psalm 68 and verse 11.
Let's read it.
Jehovah gives the command, the women proclaiming the good news are a large army.
Those words were inspired by God, but what did this psalmist have in mind when he pinned them?
The context of Psalm 68 shows that David was praising Jehovah as a God of saving acts.
From the time of their exodus from Egypt, the men of Israel often had to fight against enemy nations.
With Jehovah's help, they defeated them, and the entire nation would then rejoice over the victory Jehovah had given them.
The first of the victory celebrations recorded in the Bible was at the time that Jehovah gave his people the victory over Pharaoh and the Egyptians who were pursuing them.
Exodus chapter 15 verses 20 and 21 tells what happened after this miraculous victory.
Then Miriam, the prophetess, Aaron's sister, took a tambourine in her hand, and all the women followed her with tambourines and with dances.
Miriam sang in response to the men, saying to Jehovah, for he has become highly exalted.
The horse and its rider he has hurled into the sea.
Picture that scene.
There were an estimated three million people in the nation of Israel. Imagine.
Out of that large number, all the women were dancing and singing praises to Jehovah. That was undoubtedly a large army.
What a great shout of praise to Jehovah that was.
Another example was when King Saul and his general David returned from victory over the Philistines.
Let's read the account at 1 Samuel chapter 18 and verse 6.
When David and the others would return from striking down the Philistines, the women would come out from all the cities of Israel with song and dances to meet King Saul with tambourines, with rejoicing and with lutes.
Notice that the account says that the women came out of all the cities to greet them with music, song and dance.
Occasions such as these were not simply expressions of rejoicing that originated with human emotion.
Recall that under inspiration, David said, Jehovah gives the command.
The women proclaiming the good news are a large army.
Yes, and Jehovah value their expressions of praise just as he value the contributions of the men who had engaged in battle.
What about today?
The report for the 2017 service year shows that there were over 8.3 million publishers proclaiming the good news throughout the earth.
They remind that in most lands, it is not unusual for our dear sisters to make up over half of our special pioneers and nearly three quarters of those who serve in the regular pioneer work.
In addition, many other sisters are wholeheartedly spreading the good news of the kingdom to the best of their ability within their circumstances.
There are many single parent families where our sisters are providing materially and spiritually for their children.
Many of our faithful single sisters are spending themselves in Jehovah's service in theocratic construction and maintenance work, Bethel service, and serving where the need is greater, which includes serving in foreign language fields.
Faithful wives, loyally support their husbands as well as fulfill their own roles as preachers and teachers.
Yes, how Jehovah must be pleased to see all of you who serve in various ways.
And we're grateful for the warm spirit and positive influence our dear sisters have on our congregations.
Clearly, Jehovah values this large army of sisters.
But does he take note of the individual circumstances and sacrifices of each sister?
We do not have to wonder.
By means of his word, Jehovah makes it evident that he sees and appreciates each of his servants.
For example, did you notice when we read the scripture in Exodus chapter 15 that Miriam was described as a prophetess?
Evidently, she was privileged to be used as an instrument of divine communication.
In some instances, this no doubt included singing songs that were inspired by Jehovah.
Miriam was not the only one in the scriptures with this designation.
Other women in the Bible records, such as Anna and Isaiah's wife, were also spoken of as prophetesses.
In the book of Judges, another faithful servant, Deborah, is identified.
Let's read Judges chapter 4 verses 4 and 5.
Now, Deborah, a prophetess. The wife of Lapidoth was judging Israel at that time.
She used to sit under Deborah's palm tree between Rayma and Bethel in the mountainous region of Ephraim.
The Israelites would go up to her for judgment.
Evidently, Deborah was assigned a subtle dispute that arose among Israelites by giving Jehovah's answer to problems that came up.
Much later in Israel's history during the reign of faithful King Josiah, Holda served as a prophetess.
At 2 Kings chapter 22 and verse 8, we read that while the temple was being repaired, the original book of the law was found.
When it was read to Josiah, he was distraught at seeing how far off the nation had strayed from Jehovah's law.
At verse 13, he directed the priest, the secretary, and other influential men.
Go in choir of Jehovah in my behalf, in behalf of the people, and in behalf of all Judah concerning the words of this book that has been found.
How did they accomplish this? Verse 14 continues.
So, he'll chia the priest, a hikeum, ackbore, shafen, and aseah, went to Holda the prophetess.
It's interesting that Jehovah uses faithful woman to convey his direction, and that prominent men in priests sought her divinely inspired advice.
The Christian Greek scriptures, however, do not permit sisters to serve in such a capacity as did Deborah and other prophetesses in the nation of Israel.
However, Titus chapter 2 verses 3 and 4 encourages older women to display spiritual qualities so that they may advise the younger women in spiritual matters.
Let's read those verses.
Likewise, let the older women be reverent in behavior, not slanderous, not enslaved to a lot of wine, teachers of what is good, so that they may advise the younger women to love their husbands, to love their children.
How we appreciate the spiritually mature sisters among us who provide such fine assistance to younger sisters or those who are newer in the truth.
However, today, Jehovah has delegated authority to men. They scripturally qualified to serve as elders and ministerial servants in order to serve, guide, and protect his people.
It is obvious that this is not due to a lack of respect for the gifts of our sisters in the congregation. In fact, many responsible brothers will acknowledge that they have benefited from the experience and practical wisdom of our humble spiritually mature sisters.
Finally, think of the outstanding faith of another woman mentioned in the Bible.
Mary, what an awesome responsibility Jehovah entrusted her with.
Mary, and raising his own son as a human, we can only imagine the thoughts that were going through her mind when she was told of this assignment.
But the account in Luke, chapter 1, tells us much about her spirituality.
In verse 38, after the angel Gabriel finished speaking with her, Mary's response was simply,
Look, Jehovah's slave girl, may it happen to me according to your declaration.
She must have wondered how Jehovah would accomplish these things, but she was humble and obedient.
Faithful men such as Moses and Jeremiah hesitated when given the challenging assignment from God, not Mary.
What a beautiful example she set for all of us, men and women. Clearly, Jehovah has always highly valued women.
And we are privileged to serve today with millions of hardworking sisters.
How pleased Jehovah must be to see dear sisters serving him humbly and faithfully.
We urge you sisters, please, keep up your good work and continue to be a positive influence in the congregation.
God has indeed granted you faithful women the privilege of participating in the fulfillment of the Psalmist words.
Jehovah gives the command, the women proclaiming the good news are a large army.